README.md, before:

# Bookings Agent

A Python-based intelligent agent built with Google's Agent Development Kit (ADK) that helps users manage and schedule appointments, meetings, and bookings. The agent uses Google Vertex AI for its language model capabilities and provides specialized sub-agents for different booking-related tasks.

## Project Overview

This project implements a multi-agent system with the following components:

- **Root Agent**: Coordinates the overall booking experience and manages sub-agents
- **Sub-Agents**:
  - **Calendar Manager**: Handles scheduling, conflicts, and calendar operations
  - **Contact Manager**: Manages contact information for bookings
  - **Booking Assistant**: Processes booking requests and preferences
  - **Reminder Service**: Handles notifications and reminders

The system uses Firestore for data persistence, storing booking information, user preferences, and availability across conversations.

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.11+
- Poetry (Python package manager)
- Google Cloud account with Vertex AI API enabled
- Google Cloud CLI (`gcloud`) installed and authenticated
  - Follow the [official installation guide](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install) to install gcloud
  - After installation, run `gcloud init` and `gcloud auth login`
- Firebase project (for Firestore database)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/bookings-agent.git
cd bookings-agent
```

2. Install Poetry if you haven't already:

```bash
curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -
```

3. Create and activate a virtual environment:

```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

4. Install project dependencies:

```bash
poetry install
```

## Architecture Notes for Apple Silicon Macs

If you encounter architecture-related errors (e.g., "incompatible architecture") when installing or running the project:

```bash
# Check your Python architecture
python -c "import platform; print(platform.machine())"

# If using x86_64 Python on Apple Silicon, use:
ARCHFLAGS="-arch x86_64" pip install pydantic pydantic-core
ARCHFLAGS="-arch x86_64" poetry install

# Or for native ARM64:
# Make sure you're using ARM64 Python first
# /opt/homebrew/bin/python3 -m venv .venv
# source .venv/bin/activate
```

## Configuration

1. Create a `.env` file in the project root with the following variables:

```bash
GOOGLE_GENAI_USE_VERTEXAI=TRUE
GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT=your-project-id
GOOGLE_CLOUD_LOCATION=your-location  # e.g., us-central1
GOOGLE_CLOUD_STAGING_BUCKET=gs://your-bucket-name
```

2. Set up Google Cloud authentication:

```bash
gcloud auth login
gcloud config set project your-project-id
```

3. Enable required APIs:

```bash
gcloud services enable aiplatform.googleapis.com
```

4. Set up Firebase:
   - Create a Firebase project in the [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com/)
   - Set up Firestore in your project
   - Download your Firebase service account key and save it as `bookings-agent-service-account.json` in the project root

## Usage

### Local Testing

The project includes deployment scripts to run the agent locally or deploy it to Google Cloud.

#### Local Deployment

Use the local deployment script to test the agent on your development machine:

```bash
# Run the local deployment script
python -m deployment.local
```

Or use the Poetry script shortcut:

```bash
poetry run python -m deployment.local
```

This will:

- Initialize Vertex AI with your project settings
- Create a local app instance
- Create a test session
- List available sessions
- Send a test query to verify functionality

### Remote Deployment

Use the remote deployment script to deploy the agent to Google Cloud:

```bash
# Deploy the agent to Google Cloud
python -m deployment.remote --create
```

After deployment, interact with the agent using:

```bash
# Create a session
python -m deployment.remote --create_session --resource_id=your-resource-id

# List sessions
python -m deployment.remote --list_sessions --resource_id=your-resource-id

# Send a message
python -m deployment.remote --send --resource_id=your-resource-id --session_id=your-session-id --message="Your question here"

# Clean up (delete deployment)
python -m deployment.remote --delete --resource_id=your-resource-id
```

## Project Structure

```
.
├── bookings_agent/        # Core agent implementation
│   ├── agent.py           # Main agent definition
│   ├── prompt.py          # Agent prompts and instructions
│   ├── models.py          # Data models
│   ├── firestore_service.py # Firestore integration
│   ├── tools/             # Agent tools implementations
│   └── sub_agents/        # Sub-agent implementations
├── deployment/            # Deployment scripts
│   ├── local.py           # Local testing deployment
│   ├── remote.py          # Google Cloud deployment
│   └── cleanup.py         # Resource cleanup utilities
├── main.py                # FastAPI server implementation
├── .env                   # Environment variables
├── pyproject.toml         # Python project configuration
├── poetry.lock            # Poetry dependencies lock file
├── requirements.txt       # Basic requirements
├── firebase.json          # Firebase configuration
├── bookings-agent-service-account.json # Firebase service account
└── Dockerfile             # Container configuration for deployment
```

## Development

### Adding New Features

To add new features to the agent:

1. **Add new tools**:

   - Create new tool functions in the `bookings_agent/tools/` directory
   - Register them with the agent in `bookings_agent/agent.py`

2. **Add new sub-agents**:

   - Create a new agent module in `bookings_agent/sub_agents/`
   - Add the sub-agent to the root agent in `bookings_agent/agent.py`

3. **Modify prompts**:

   - Update agent instructions in `bookings_agent/prompt.py`

4. **Test your changes**:
   - Run the local deployment script to verify functionality
   - Use the remote deployment for full-scale testing

### Customizing the Agent

The agent's behavior is primarily controlled by its prompt instructions and tools. To customize:

1. Modify the `BOOKINGS_AGENT_INSTRUCTION` in `prompt.py`
2. Add or remove tools from the `root_agent` configuration in `agent.py`
3. Adjust the sub-agent configuration to fit your use case

## Troubleshooting

1. **Authentication Issues**:

   - Ensure you're logged in with `gcloud auth login`
   - Verify your project ID and location in `.env`
   - Check that the Vertex AI API is enabled

2. **Deployment Failures**:

   - Check the staging bucket exists and is accessible
   - Verify all required environment variables are set
   - Ensure you have the necessary permissions in your Google Cloud project

3. **Firestore Connection Issues**:

   - Verify your service account key file is correctly set up
   - Check Firestore permissions in your Firebase project

4. **Model Access Issues**:
   - Ensure the models specified in `models.py` are available in your Vertex AI project
   - Request model access if needed through Google Cloud Console

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## License

[Apache License 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

Commit message:

Update README with migration info and fix bookings_agent references in prompt

README.md, after:

# Bookings Agent

A Python-based intelligent agent built with Google's Agent Development Kit (ADK) that helps users manage and schedule appointments, meetings, and bookings. The agent uses Google Vertex AI for its language model capabilities and provides specialized sub-agents for different booking-related tasks.

## Project Overview

This project implements a multi-agent system with the following components:

- **Root Agent**: Coordinates the overall booking experience and manages sub-agents
- **Sub-Agents**:
  - **Calendar Manager**: Handles scheduling, conflicts, and calendar operations
  - **Contact Manager**: Manages contact information for bookings
  - **Booking Assistant**: Processes booking requests and preferences
  - **Reminder Service**: Handles notifications and reminders

The system uses Firestore for data persistence, storing booking information, user preferences, and availability across conversations.

## Project Migration

This project was migrated from the simulation-guide-agent project:

- All directories were renamed from `simulation_guide` to `bookings_agent`
- Import statements were updated across all files
- Configuration was updated in `pyproject.toml` and deployment files
- A new Git repository was created for this specific implementation

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.11+
- Poetry (Python package manager)
- Google Cloud account with Vertex AI API enabled
- Google Cloud CLI (`gcloud`) installed and authenticated
  - Follow the [official installation guide](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install) to install gcloud
  - After installation, run `gcloud init` and `gcloud auth login`
- Firebase project (for Firestore database)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/bookings-agent.git
cd bookings-agent
```

2. Install Poetry if you haven't already:

```bash
curl -sSL https://install.python-poetry.org | python3 -
```

3. Create and activate a virtual environment:

```bash
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

4. Install project dependencies:

```bash
poetry install
```

## Architecture Notes for Apple Silicon Macs

If you encounter architecture-related errors (e.g., "incompatible architecture") when installing or running the project:

```bash
# Check your Python architecture
python -c "import platform; print(platform.machine())"

# If using x86_64 Python on Apple Silicon, use:
ARCHFLAGS="-arch x86_64" pip install pydantic pydantic-core
ARCHFLAGS="-arch x86_64" poetry install

# Or for native ARM64:
# Make sure you're using ARM64 Python first
# /opt/homebrew/bin/python3 -m venv .venv
# source .venv/bin/activate
```

## Configuration

1. Create a `.env` file in the project root with the following variables:

```bash
GOOGLE_GENAI_USE_VERTEXAI=TRUE
GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT=your-project-id
GOOGLE_CLOUD_LOCATION=your-location  # e.g., us-central1
GOOGLE_CLOUD_STAGING_BUCKET=gs://your-bucket-name
```

2. Set up Google Cloud authentication:

```bash
gcloud auth login
gcloud config set project your-project-id
```

3. Enable required APIs:

```bash
gcloud services enable aiplatform.googleapis.com
```

4. Set up Firebase:
   - Create a Firebase project in the [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com/)
   - Set up Firestore in your project
   - Download your Firebase service account key and save it as `bookings-agent-service-account.json` in the project root

## Usage

### Local Testing

The project includes deployment scripts to run the agent locally or deploy it to Google Cloud.

#### Local Deployment

Use the local deployment script to test the agent on your development machine:

```bash
# Run the local deployment script
python -m deployment.local
```

Or use the Poetry script shortcut:

```bash
poetry run python -m deployment.local
```

This will:

- Initialize Vertex AI with your project settings
- Create a local app instance
- Create a test session
- List available sessions
- Send a test query to verify functionality

### Remote Deployment

Use the remote deployment script to deploy the agent to Google Cloud:

```bash
# Deploy the agent to Google Cloud
python -m deployment.remote --create
```

After deployment, interact with the agent using:

```bash
# Create a session
python -m deployment.remote --create_session --resource_id=your-resource-id

# List sessions
python -m deployment.remote --list_sessions --resource_id=your-resource-id

# Send a message
python -m deployment.remote --send --resource_id=your-resource-id --session_id=your-session-id --message="Your question here"

# Clean up (delete deployment)
python -m deployment.remote --delete --resource_id=your-resource-id
```

## Project Structure

```
.
├── bookings_agent/        # Core agent implementation
│   ├── agent.py           # Main agent definition
│   ├── prompt.py          # Agent prompts and instructions
│   ├── models.py          # Data models
│   ├── firestore_service.py # Firestore integration
│   ├── tools/             # Agent tools implementations
│   └── sub_agents/        # Sub-agent implementations
├── deployment/            # Deployment scripts
│   ├── local.py           # Local testing deployment
│   ├── remote.py          # Google Cloud deployment
│   └── cleanup.py         # Resource cleanup utilities
├── main.py                # FastAPI server implementation
├── .env                   # Environment variables
├── pyproject.toml         # Python project configuration
├── poetry.lock            # Poetry dependencies lock file
├── requirements.txt       # Basic requirements
├── firebase.json          # Firebase configuration
├── bookings-agent-service-account.json # Firebase service account
└── Dockerfile             # Container configuration for deployment
```

## Development

### Adding New Features

To add new features to the agent:

1. **Add new tools**:

   - Create new tool functions in the `bookings_agent/tools/` directory
   - Register them with the agent in `bookings_agent/agent.py`

2. **Add new sub-agents**:

   - Create a new agent module in `bookings_agent/sub_agents/`
   - Add the sub-agent to the root agent in `bookings_agent/agent.py`

3. **Modify prompts**:

   - Update agent instructions in `bookings_agent/prompt.py`

4. **Test your changes**:
   - Run the local deployment script to verify functionality
   - Use the remote deployment for full-scale testing

### Customizing the Agent

The agent's behavior is primarily controlled by its prompt instructions and tools. To customize:

1. Modify the `BOOKINGS_AGENT_INSTRUCTION` in `prompt.py`
2. Add or remove tools from the `root_agent` configuration in `agent.py`
3. Adjust the sub-agent configuration to fit your use case

## Troubleshooting

1. **Authentication Issues**:

   - Ensure you're logged in with `gcloud auth login`
   - Verify your project ID and location in `.env`
   - Check that the Vertex AI API is enabled

2. **Deployment Failures**:

   - Check the staging bucket exists and is accessible
   - Verify all required environment variables are set
   - Ensure you have the necessary permissions in your Google Cloud project

3. **Firestore Connection Issues**:

   - Verify your service account key file is correctly set up
   - Check Firestore permissions in your Firebase project

4. **Model Access Issues**:
   - Ensure the models specified in `models.py` are available in your Vertex AI project
   - Request model access if needed through Google Cloud Console

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## License

[Apache License 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
